---
section: Design Guidelines
title: "Introduction: Functional Specifications"
---

## Scope & Purpose
E-Heza Data Solutions is a comprehensive point-of-care digital health platform that ensures high quality, efficient care when and where it is needed most. First established to serve the Rwandan primary care ecosystem that is comprised of nurses and midwives in health centers and community health workers (CHW) in villages, E-Heza is designed to support existing government health systems and facilitates the most common workflows of frontline health workers at the community and facility levels in Sub Saharan Africa (SSA) where large electronic medical record (EMR) systems are often impractical and where existing CHW tools struggle to adequately support the two-way communication and data management capacity that facilitates an effective and efficient local healthcare ecosystem at scale. E-Heza utilizes API integration and FHIR interoperability standards to deliver critical patient information to existing electronic medical record systems. E-Heza is a full-service primary care platform that serves multiple levels of care in one system rather than requiring cumbersome integrations at each level of the health care delivery system, facilitating high quality care that encourages patient retention in care and sustained improvements in health outcomes.

E-Heza was created to inspire high quality care by easing workloads, providing personalized care, and streamlining data reporting to national governments. E-Heza incentivizes accurate data by using data trends to celebrate success and identify problems before they become emergencies. Similarly, filterable dashboards provide real-time insight into the health of communities from the village, health center, district, and national levels. E-Heza ensures that vital individual clinical information is available at each level of care through a shared progress report that can also be sent directly to the individual via WhatsApp.

E-Heza incorporates best practice clinical protocols established by the World Health Organization and seamlessly guides frontline health workers through assessment, diagnosis, treatment, referral and case management. The activities are tailored for the skill level of the user based upon user type log-in identifiers, and refers patients to the next level of care based upon the severity of the patient’s presentation. E-Heza provides comprehensive clinical protocol and decision support for Covid-19 screening, referral, home-based care, treatment and contact tracing functions, Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) such as malaria and diarrhea, Case Management, Pediatric Care, Immunizations, Early Childhood Development, Family Planning, Antenatal Care, HIV services, Tuberculosis screening, Non-communicable Diseases, Laboratory and Medication management.
